<p align="center"><a href="https://github.com/ajax333221/isepic-chess#book-documentation">« Return</a></p>

<h1 align="center">Board methods</h1>

Boards created by `Ic.initBoard()` have the following available methods:

<ul>
<li>board.loadFen()</li>
<li>board.playMove()</li>
<li>board.playMoves()</li>
<li>board.toggleIsRotated()</li>
<li>board.setPromoteTo()</li>
<li>board.setManualResult()</li>
<li>board.setCurrentMove()</li>
<li>board.navFirst()</li>
<li>board.navPrevious()</li>
<li>board.navNext()</li>
<li>board.navLast()</li>
<li>board.navLinkMove()</li>
<li>board.cloneBoardFrom()</li>
<li>board.cloneBoardTo()</li>
<li>board.reset()</li>
<li>board.undoMove()</li>
<li>board.undoMoves()</li>
<li>board.countLightDarkBishops()</li>
<li>board.getCheckmateMoves()</li>
<li>board.getDrawMoves()</li>
<li>board.fenHistoryExport()</li>
<li>board.pgnExport()</li>
<li>board.uciExport()</li>
<li>board.ascii()</li>
<li>board.getSquare()</li>
<li>board.setSquare()</li>
<li>board.attackersFromActive()</li>
<li>board.attackersFromNonActive()</li>
<li>board.isLegalMove()</li>
<li>board.legalMoves()</li>
<li>board.legalFenMoves()</li>
<li>board.legalSanMoves()</li>
<li>board.legalUciMoves()</li>
<li>board.isEqualBoard()</li>
</ul>

#### Table `board.<methods>(...)`:

Function | Parameters | Return | UI refresh? | Description
-------- | ---------- | ------ | ----------- | -----------
**loadFen**(<br>*fen*,<br>*p*<br>) | <ul><li>fen (String)</li><li>:eight_pointed_black_star:p (Object):<ul><li>:eight_spoked_asterisk:skipFenValidation (Boolean)</li><li>:eight_spoked_asterisk:keepOptions (Boolean)</li></ul></li></ul><hr>:eight_pointed_black_star:Optional Parameter<br>:eight_spoked_asterisk:Optional Object key | Success:<ul><li>Boolean</li></ul><hr>:small_red_triangle_down:Error:<ul><li>Boolean: `false`</li></ul> | Yes | Loads a **fen position**.<br><br>`skipFenValidation = true` skips the fen validation. This should only be used if the fen is known to pass the fen tests of `isepic-chess.js` or the fen was generated by `isepic-chess.js`.<br><br>`keepOptions = true` can be used to prevent the overwrite of `board.isRotated`, `board.promoteTo` and `board.isHidden` to their respectives defaults.<br><br>The Boolean options (`skipFenValidation` and `keepOptions`) default to `false` when not set to a Boolean value of `true`.<br><br>Successfully loading a fen will set `"*"` to `board.manualResult`.<hr>Examples:<ul><li>`board.loadFen("r1bqkbnr/pppp2pp/2n2p2/4p3/2B1P3/5N2/PPPP1PPP/RNBQ1RK1 b kq - 1 4") //true`</li><li>`board.loadFen("2k5/8/1K1R4/8/8/8/8/8 b - - 0 1", {keepOptions: true}) //true`</li><li>`board.loadFen("0invalidfen0") //false`</li></ul><hr>:small_red_triangle_down:Error emits a `console.log(...)` when:<ul><li>`fen` is an **invalid fen**.</li></ul>
**playMove**(<br>*mov*,<br>*p*<br>) | <ul><li>mov:<ul><li>**moveSan** (String)</li><li>**moveUci** (String)</li><li>**moveJoined** (String)</li><li>**moveFen** (String)</li><li>**moveFromTo** (Array)</li><li>**move** (Object)</li></ul></li><li>:eight_pointed_black_star:p (Object):<ul><li>:eight_spoked_asterisk:isMockMove (Boolean)</li><li>:eight_spoked_asterisk:promoteTo:<ul><li>**squareBal** (String)</li><li>**squareAbsBal** (String)</li><li>**squareVal** (Number)</li><li>**squareAbsVal** (Number)</li><li>**squareClassName** (String)</li><li>**square** (Object)</li></ul></li><li>:eight_spoked_asterisk:delimiter (String)</li><li>:eight_spoked_asterisk:isLegalMove (Boolean)</li><li>:eight_spoked_asterisk:isInanimated (Boolean)</li><li>:eight_spoked_asterisk:playSounds (Boolean)</li><li>:eight_spoked_asterisk:isUnreferenced (Boolean)</li></ul></li></ul><hr>:eight_pointed_black_star:Optional Parameter<br>:eight_spoked_asterisk:Optional Object key | Success:<ul><li>**move** (Object)</li></ul><hr>Error:<ul><li>null</li></ul> | Yes | Generates and returns a :pushpin:**move**.<br><br>`isMockMove = true` plays the move on a **temporal board** instead of affecting the **board**.<br><br>`isLegalMove = true` skips the legal move validation. This should only be used if the move is known to be a legal move for a specific fen and the current board fen matches it.<br><br>`isInanimated = true` prevents the **piece animation** in UI <sup>(the UI refresh takes place normally)</sup>.<br><br>`playSounds = true` plays the move with **sound effects** in UI.<br><br>`isUnreferenced = true` means that the returned **move** will not be referenced (modifying these unreferenced copies will not affect the corresponding elements in the **move list** or the other way around).<br><br>The Boolean options (`isMockMove`, `isLegalMove`, `isInanimated`, `playSounds` and `isUnreferenced`) default to `false` when not set to a Boolean value of `true`.<br><br>`promoteTo` takes precedence over everything when specified and a pawn promotion takes place.<br><br>`delimiter` is a single character to look for in **moveJoined** (like `"-" in "a2-a4"`) to allow the use of any delimiters. Defaults to `"-"` if not specified.<br><br>Successfully playing a move will set `"*"` to `board.manualResult`.<hr>Examples:<ul><li>`board.playMove("Nc3") //Object{...}`</li><li>`board.playMove("b1_c3", {delimiter: "_"}) //Object{...}`</li><li>`board.playMove("0invalidmove0") //null`</li></ul><hr>:pushpin:Move documentation link:<ul><li>[move properties](https://github.com/ajax333221/isepic-chess/blob/master/docs/move-properties.md#move-properties).</li></ul>
**playMoves**(<br>*movArray*,<br>*p*<br>) | <ul><li>movArray (Array)</li><li>:eight_pointed_black_star:p (Object):<ul><li>:eight_spoked_asterisk:isMockMove (Boolean)</li><li>:eight_spoked_asterisk:promoteTo:<ul><li>**squareBal** (String)</li><li>**squareAbsBal** (String)</li><li>**squareVal** (Number)</li><li>**squareAbsVal** (Number)</li><li>**squareClassName** (String)</li><li>**square** (Object)</li></ul></li><li>:eight_spoked_asterisk:delimiter (String)</li><li>:eight_spoked_asterisk:isLegalMove (Boolean)</li><li>:eight_spoked_asterisk:isInanimated (Boolean)</li><li>:eight_spoked_asterisk:playSounds (Boolean)</li></ul></li></ul><hr>:eight_pointed_black_star:Optional Parameter<br>:eight_spoked_asterisk:Optional Object key | Success:<ul><li>Boolean</li></ul><hr>Error:<ul><li>Boolean: `false`</li></ul> | Yes | It tries to play all the moves consecutively and tells you if all moves were successfully played or not.<br><br>`isMockMove = true` plays the moves on a **temporal board** instead of affecting the **board**.<br><br>:zap:**Tip:** when **isMockMove** is used, all the moves are expected to be from the active side (do not alternate them with the non-active side as the moves will not be being played). However, it is preferred to validate multiple moves with `board.isLegalMove(...)` and a loop with early break.<br><br>`isLegalMove = true` skips the legal move validation. This should only be used if the moves are known to be legal moves for a specific fen and the current board fen matches it.<br><br>`isInanimated = true` prevents the **piece animations** in UI <sup>(the UI refresh takes place normally)</sup>.<br><br>`playSounds = true` plays the moves with **sound effects** in UI.<br><br>The Boolean options (`isMockMove`, `isLegalMove`, `isInanimated` and `playSounds`) default to `false` when not set to a Boolean value of `true`.<br><br>`promoteTo` takes precedence over everything when specified and a pawn promotion takes place.<br><br>`delimiter` is a single character to look for in **moveJoined** (like `"-" in "a2-a4"`) to allow the use of any delimiters. Defaults to `"-"` if not specified.<br><br>Successfully playing a move will set `"*"` to `board.manualResult`.<hr>Examples:<ul><li>`board.playMoves(["e4", "e7-e5", "Nf3"]) //true`</li><li>`board.playMoves(["e2_e4", "e5", "Nf3"], {delimiter: "_"}) //true`</li><li>`board.playMoves(["0invalidmove0"]) //false`</li><li>`board.playMoves(["e4", "0invalidmove0"]) //false`</li></ul>
**toggleIsRotated**(<br>*newIsRotated*<br>) | <ul><li>:eight_pointed_black_star:newIsRotated (Boolean)</li></ul><hr>:eight_pointed_black_star:Optional Parameter | Boolean | Yes | Toggles (or sets) the **board property** of `board.isRotated`.<br><br>When a Boolean is passed, `board.isRotated` will be setting that specific value instead of toggling.<hr>Examples:<ul><li>`board.toggleIsRotated() //true`</li><li>`board.toggleIsRotated(false) //true`</li><li>`board.toggleIsRotated(false) //false`</li><li>`board.toggleIsRotated(true) //true`</li><li>`board.toggleIsRotated(true) //false`</li></ul>
**setPromoteTo**(<br>*qal*<br>) | <ul><li>qal:<ul><li>**squareBal** (String)</li><li>**squareAbsBal** (String)</li><li>**squareVal** (Number)</li><li>**squareAbsVal** (Number)</li><li>**squareClassName** (String)</li><li>**square** (Object)</li></ul></li></ul> | Boolean | Yes | Changes the **board property** of `board.promoteTo`.<br><br>Min and max inclusive limits of `2` (knight) and `5` (queen) will be enforced.<br><br>**Falsy-values** and invalid inputs will default to `5` (queen).<hr>Examples:<ul><li>`board.setPromoteTo(3) //true`</li><li>`board.setPromoteTo(3) //false`</li><li>`board.setPromoteTo(-4) //true`</li><li>`board.setPromoteTo("q") //true`</li><li>`board.setPromoteTo("N") //true`</li><li>`board.setPromoteTo("wr") //true`</li><li>`board.setPromoteTo("br") //false`</li><li>`board.setPromoteTo() //true`</li><li>`board.setPromoteTo() //false`</li></ul>
**setManualResult**(<br>*res*<br>) | <ul><li>res (String)</li></ul> | Boolean | Yes | Changes the **board property** of `board.manualResult`.<br><br>Valid inputs are `"*", "1-0", "0-1" and "1/2-1/2"`. The fallback `"*"` will be used for invalid inputs.<hr>Examples:<ul><li>`board.setManualResult("*") //false`</li><li>`board.setManualResult("1-0") //true`</li><li>`board.setManualResult("0-1") //true`</li><li>`board.setManualResult("1/2-1/2") //true`</li><li>`board.setManualResult("0invalidresult0") //true`</li></ul>
**setCurrentMove**(<br>*val*,<br>*isGoto*<br>) | <ul><li>val (Number)</li><li>:eight_pointed_black_star:isGoto (Boolean)</li></ul><hr>:eight_pointed_black_star:Optional Parameter | Boolean | Yes | Changes the **board property** of `board.currentMove`.<br><br>When a Boolean `true` is passed (or not passing a Boolean type), the value will be set to the **current move**.<br><br>When a Boolean `false` is passed, the **current move** will be shifted by the value instead of setting the value.<br><br>The **piece animation** in UI will be prevented when:<ul><li>Boolean `true` is passed in `isGoto`.</li><li>`isGoto` is not a Boolean type and the **current move** change is bigger than one.</li></ul><hr>Examples:<ul><li>`board.setCurrentMove(2) //true`</li><li>`board.setCurrentMove(2) //false`</li><li>`board.setCurrentMove(1, false) //true`</li><li>`board.setCurrentMove(1, false) //true`</li><li>`board.setCurrentMove(4, true) //true`</li><li>`board.setCurrentMove(4, true) //false`</li></ul>
**navFirst**() | - | Boolean | Yes | Performs a `board.setCurrentMove(0)`.<hr>Examples:<ul><li>`board.navFirst() //true`</li><li>`board.navFirst() //false`</li></ul>
**navPrevious**() | - | Boolean | Yes | Performs a `board.setCurrentMove(board.currentMove-1)`.<hr>Examples:<ul><li>`board.navPrevious() //true`</li><li>`board.navPrevious() //false`</li></ul>
**navNext**() | - | Boolean | Yes | Performs a `board.setCurrentMove(board.currentMove+1)`.<hr>Examples:<ul><li>`board.navNext() //true`</li><li>`board.navNext() //false`</li></ul>
**navLast**() | - | Boolean | Yes | Performs a `board.setCurrentMove(board.moveList.length-1)`.<hr>Examples:<ul><li>`board.navLast() //true`</li><li>`board.navLast() //false`</li></ul>
**navLinkMove**(<br>*moveIndex*<br>) | <ul><li>moveIndex (Number)</li></ul> | Boolean | Yes | Performs a `board.setCurrentMove(moveIndex)`.<hr>Examples:<ul><li>`board.navLinkMove(2) //true`</li><li>`board.navLinkMove(2) //false`</li></ul>
**cloneBoardFrom**(<br>*fromBoard*<br>) | <ul><li>fromBoard:<ul><li>**boardName** (String)</li><li>**board** (Object)</li></ul></li></ul> | Boolean | Yes | Copies all the board properties (except `board.boardName`) from another board into this board.<hr>Examples:<ul><li>`board.cloneBoardFrom(from_board) //true`</li><li>`board.cloneBoardFrom("0invalid0") //false`</li><li>`board.cloneBoardFrom(board) //false`</li></ul><hr>:small_red_triangle_down:Error emits a `console.log(...)` when:<ul><li>the *from board* is not found.</li><li>attempting to clone the board from itself.</li></ul>
**cloneBoardTo**(<br>*toBoard*<br>) | <ul><li>toBoard:<ul><li>**boardName** (String)</li><li>**board** (Object)</li></ul></li></ul> | Boolean | Yes | Copies all the board properties (except `board.boardName`) from this board into another board.<hr>Examples:<ul><li>`board.cloneBoardTo(to_board) //true`</li><li>`board.cloneBoardTo("0invalid0") //false`</li><li>`board.cloneBoardTo(board) //false`</li></ul><hr>:small_red_triangle_down:Error emits a `console.log(...)` when:<ul><li>the *to board* is not found.</li><li>attempting to clone the board to itself.</li></ul>
**reset**(<br>*keepOptions*<br>) | <ul><li>:eight_pointed_black_star:keepOptions (Boolean)</li></ul><hr>:eight_pointed_black_star:Optional Parameter | Boolean | Yes | Loads the **default fen position**.<br><br>`keepOptions` can be used to prevent the overwrite of `board.isRotated`, `board.promoteTo` and `board.isHidden` to their respectives defaults.<br><br>All the played moves are deleted.<br><br>It will set `"*"` to `board.manualResult`.<hr>Examples:<ul><li>`board.reset() //true`</li><li>`board.reset() //false`</li><li>`board.reset(true) //true`</li><li>`board.reset(true) //false`</li></ul>
**undoMove**() | - | Success:<ul><li>**move** (Object)</li></ul><hr>Error:<ul><li>null</li></ul> | Yes | Removes the last :pushpin:**move** played and returns it.<br><br>The returned move is unreferenced and no longer tied to the board (modifying this unreferenced copy will not affect the corresponding element in the **move list** or the other way around).<br><br>The **current move** will be decreased as necessary if it was pointing to the removed move.<br><br>Successfully removing a move will set `"*"` to `board.manualResult`.<hr>Examples:<ul><li>`board.undoMove() //Object{...}`</li><li>`board.undoMove() //null`</li></ul><hr>:pushpin:Move documentation link:<ul><li>[move properties](https://github.com/ajax333221/isepic-chess/blob/master/docs/move-properties.md#move-properties).</li></ul>
**undoMoves**(<br>*decreaseBy*<br>) | <ul><li>:eight_pointed_black_star:decreaseBy (Number)</li></ul><hr>:eight_pointed_black_star:Optional Parameter | **moveArray** (Array) | Yes | Removes the last N :pushpin:**move**s played and returns them as a **move array**.<br><br>If `decreaseBy` is omitted, all the moves will be removed.<br><br>The returned moves are unreferenced and no longer tied to the board (modifying these unreferenced copies will not affect the corresponding elements in the **move list** or the other way around).<br><br>The **current move** will be decreased as necessary if it was pointing to one of the removed moves.<br><br>Successfully removing a move will set `"*"` to `board.manualResult`.<hr>Examples:<ul><li>`board.undoMoves() //[{...}, {...}, ..., {...}]`</li><li>`board.undoMoves(2) //[{...}, {...}]`</li><li>`board.undoMoves(1) //[{...}]`</li><li>`board.undoMoves(0) //[]`</li></ul><hr>:pushpin:Move documentation link:<ul><li>[move properties](https://github.com/ajax333221/isepic-chess/blob/master/docs/move-properties.md#move-properties).</li></ul>
**countLightDarkBishops**() | - | Object: `{w:{...}, b:{...}}` | No | Returns the **bishop count** structured by player color (`w` and `b`) and then by square color (`lightSquaredBishops` and `darkSquaredBishops`).<br><br>The player colors `{w:{...}, b:{...}}` have the following sub-properties:<ul><li>**lightSquaredBishops** (Number): `obj.w.lightSquaredBishops` and `obj.b.lightSquaredBishops`.</li><li>**darkSquaredBishops** (Number): `obj.w.darkSquaredBishops` and `obj.b.darkSquaredBishops`.</li></ul><hr>Example:<ul><li>`board.countLightDarkBishops() //Object{...}`</li></ul>
**getCheckmateMoves**(<br>*earlyBreak*<br>) | <ul><li>:eight_pointed_black_star:earlyBreak (Boolean)</li></ul><hr>:eight_pointed_black_star:Optional Parameter | **finalUciArray** (Array) | No | Returns a **final uci array** with all the uci moves that deliver checkmate after playing any of them.<br><br>Any truthy-value in `earlyBreak` will short-circuit and stop looking after a single move is found.<hr>Examples:<ul><li>`board.getCheckmateMoves() //[]`</li><li>`board_after_f4_e6_g4.getCheckmateMoves() //["d8h4"]`</li></ul>
**getDrawMoves**(<br>*earlyBreak*<br>) | <ul><li>:eight_pointed_black_star:earlyBreak (Boolean)</li></ul><hr>:eight_pointed_black_star:Optional Parameter | **finalUciArray** (Array) | No | Returns a **final uci array** with all the uci moves that draw or a draw is claimable after playing any of them.<br><br>Any truthy-value in `earlyBreak` will short-circuit and stop looking after a single move is found.<hr>Examples:<ul><li>`board.getDrawMoves() //[]`</li><li>`a8_cornered_k_vs_kq.getDrawMoves() //["d6b6", "d6c7"]`</li></ul>
**fenHistoryExport**() | - | Array | No | Returns the **FEN history** list.<br><br>The first element (index 0) holds the initial fen position.<hr>Examples:<ul><li>`board.fenHistoryExport() //["rnbqkbnr/pppppppp/8/8/8/8/PPPPPPPP/RNBQKBNR w KQkq - 0 1"]`</li><li>`board_after_e4.fenHistoryExport() //["rnbqkbnr/pppppppp/8/8/8/8/PPPPPPPP/RNBQKBNR w KQkq - 0 1", "rnbqkbnr/pppppppp/8/8/4P3/8/PPPP1PPP/RNBQKBNR b KQkq - 0 1"]`</li></ul>
**pgnExport**() | - | String | No | Returns the **PGN** as text.<br><br>A line feed `\n` is used as the line break character.<hr>Examples:<ul><li>`board.pgnExport() //"... *"`</li><li>`board_after_e4.pgnExport() //"... 1. e4 *"`</li></ul>
**uciExport**() | - | String | No | Returns the **UCI** moves as text.<hr>Examples:<ul><li>`board.uciExport() //""`</li><li>`board_after_e4.uciExport() //"e2e4"`</li></ul>
**ascii**(<br>*isRotated*<br>) | <ul><li>:eight_pointed_black_star:isRotated (Boolean)</li></ul><hr>:eight_pointed_black_star:Optional Parameter | String | No | Returns the **chess diagram** as text.<br><br>Boolean parameters will take precedence over the **board property** of `board.isRotated`.<br><br>A line feed `\n` is used as the line break character.<hr>Examples:<ul><li>`board.ascii() //"..."`</li><li>`board.ascii(true) //"..."`</li><li>`board.ascii(false) //"..."`</li></ul>
**getSquare**(<br>*qos*,<br>*p*<br>) | <ul><li>qos:<ul><li>**squareBos** (String)</li><li>**squarePos** (Array)</li><li>**square** (Object)</li></ul></li><li>:eight_pointed_black_star:p (Object):<ul><li>:eight_spoked_asterisk:rankShift (Number): `-7 to 7`</li><li>:eight_spoked_asterisk:fileShift (Number): `-7 to 7`</li><li>:eight_spoked_asterisk:isUnreferenced (Boolean)</li></ul></li></ul><hr>:eight_pointed_black_star:Optional Parameter<br>:eight_spoked_asterisk:Optional Object key | Success:<ul><li>**square** (Object)</li></ul><hr>Error:<ul><li>null</li></ul> | No | Returns a :pushpin:**square**.<br><br>If the **square** is invalid (before or after shifting by `rankShift` and `fileShift`), then `null` will be returned.<br><br>`isUnreferenced = true` means that the returned **square** will not be referenced (updates made to the **board** do not affect these unreferenced copies or the other way around).<br><br>The Boolean option `isUnreferenced` defaults to `false` when not set to a Boolean value of `true`.<hr>Examples:<ul><li>`board.getSquare("e4") //Object{...}`</li><li>`board.getSquare("a1", {rankShift: -7, fileShift: 7}) //Object{...}`</li><li>`board.getSquare("0invalidsquare0") //null`</li></ul><hr>:pushpin:Square documentation link:<ul><li>[square properties](https://github.com/ajax333221/isepic-chess/blob/master/docs/square-properties.md#square-properties).</li></ul>
**setSquare**(<br>*qos*,<br>*qal*,<br>*p*<br>) | <ul><li>qos:<ul><li>**squareBos** (String)</li><li>**squarePos** (Array)</li><li>**square** (Object)</li></ul></li><li>qal:<ul><li>**squareBal** (String)</li><li>**squareAbsBal** (String)</li><li>**squareVal** (Number)</li><li>**squareAbsVal** (Number)</li><li>**squareClassName** (String)</li><li>**square** (Object)</li></ul></li><li>:eight_pointed_black_star:p (Object):<ul><li>:eight_spoked_asterisk:rankShift (Number): `-7 to 7`</li><li>:eight_spoked_asterisk:fileShift (Number): `-7 to 7`</li></ul></li></ul><hr>:eight_pointed_black_star:Optional Parameter<br>:eight_spoked_asterisk:Optional Object key | Success:<ul><li>**square** (Object)</li></ul><hr>Error:<ul><li>null</li></ul> | No | Updates and returns a :pushpin:**square**.<br><br>It updates the **king bos** (`board.w.kingBos` or `board.b.kingBos`) when setting a king.<br><br>The **square** object will have every non-static property updated.<br><br>**:warning:Important:** this method is not meant to be used unless you know exactly how everything works (the validation, castle rights and UI must be manually checked, updated and refreshed).<hr>Examples:<ul><li>`board.setSquare("e4", 0) //true`</li><li>`board.setSquare("a1", "Q", {rankShift: -7, fileShift: 7}) //true`</li><li>`board.setSquare("0invalidsquare0", "wr") //false`</li></ul><hr>:pushpin:Square documentation link:<ul><li>[square properties](https://github.com/ajax333221/isepic-chess/blob/master/docs/square-properties.md#square-properties).</li></ul>
**attackersFromActive**(<br>*qos*,<br>*earlyBreak*<br>) | <ul><li>:eight_pointed_black_star:qos:<ul><li>**squareBos** (String)</li><li>**squarePos** (Array)</li><li>**square** (Object)</li></ul></li><li>:eight_pointed_black_star:earlyBreak (Boolean)</li></ul><hr>:eight_pointed_black_star:Optional Parameter | Number | No | This can be called to know how many times active side pieces are attacking a square.<br><br>Any truthy-value in `earlyBreak` will short-circuit and stop looking after a single attack on the square (in this case, either a 0 or 1 will be returned).<br><br>The non-active side **king bos** will be used as default if the optional **qos** is missing.<br><br>It is a waste of resources to re-count the times attacked to the non-active side king square by active side pieces attacks (it is not possible to have the non-active side king at check while still be the active side to move, the result will always be `0`).<hr>Examples:<ul><li>`board.attackersFromActive("c3") //3`</li><li>`board.attackersFromActive("c3", true) //1`</li><li>`board.attackersFromActive("c3", false) //3`</li><li>`board.attackersFromActive("e4") //0`</li><li>`board.attackersFromActive("e4", true) //0`</li><li>`board.attackersFromActive("e4", false) //0`</li></ul>
**attackersFromNonActive**(<br>*qos*,<br>*earlyBreak*<br>) | <ul><li>:eight_pointed_black_star:qos:<ul><li>**squareBos** (String)</li><li>**squarePos** (Array)</li><li>**square** (Object)</li></ul></li><li>:eight_pointed_black_star:earlyBreak (Boolean)</li></ul><hr>:eight_pointed_black_star:Optional Parameter | Number | No | This can be called to know how many times non-active side pieces are attacking a square.<br><br>Any truthy-value in `earlyBreak` will short-circuit and stop looking after a single attack on the square (in this case, either a 0 or 1 will be returned).<br><br>The active side **king bos** will be used as default if the optional **qos** is missing.<br><br>It is a waste of resources to re-count the times attacked to the active side king square by non-active side pieces attacks (this information is already calculated and stored in `board.checks`).<hr>Examples:<ul><li>`board.attackersFromNonActive("c6") //3`</li><li>`board.attackersFromNonActive("c6", true) //1`</li><li>`board.attackersFromNonActive("c6", false) //3`</li><li>`board.attackersFromNonActive("e4") //0`</li><li>`board.attackersFromNonActive("e4", true) //0`</li><li>`board.attackersFromNonActive("e4", false) //0`</li></ul>
**isLegalMove**(<br>*mov*,<br>*p*<br>) | <ul><li>mov:<ul><li>**moveSan** (String)</li><li>**moveUci** (String)</li><li>**moveJoined** (String)</li><li>**moveFen** (String)</li><li>**moveFromTo** (Array)</li><li>**move** (Object)</li></ul></li><li>:eight_pointed_black_star:p (Object):<ul><li>:eight_spoked_asterisk:delimiter (String)</li></ul></li></ul><hr>:eight_pointed_black_star:Optional Parameter<br>:eight_spoked_asterisk:Optional Object key | Success:<ul><li>Boolean</li></ul><hr>Error:<ul><li>Boolean: `false`</li></ul> | No | Test to see if a move is legal or not.<br><br>`delimiter` is a single character to look for in **moveJoined** (like `"-" in "a2-a4"`) to allow the use of any delimiters. Defaults to `"-"` if not specified.<hr>Examples:<ul><li>`board.isLegalMove("Nf3") //true`</li><li>`board.isLegalMove("g1f3") //true`</li><li>`board.isLegalMove("g1-f3") //true`</li><li>`board.isLegalMove("g1_f3", {delimiter: "_"}) //true`</li><li>`board.isLegalMove("rnbqkbnr/pppppppp/8/8/8/5N2/PPPPPPPP/RNBQKB1R b KQkq - 1 1") //true`</li><li>`board.isLegalMove(["g1", [5, 5]]) //true`</li><li>`board.isLegalMove("0invalidsan0") //false`</li><li>`board.isLegalMove("a1-h7") //false`</li><li>`board.isLegalMove(["a1", "0invalidsquare0"]) //false`</li></ul>
**legalMoves**(<br>*initialQos*,<br>*p*<br>) | <ul><li>initialQos:<ul><li>**squareBos** (String)</li><li>**squarePos** (Array)</li><li>**square** (Object)</li></ul></li><li>:eight_pointed_black_star:p (Object):<ul><li>:eight_spoked_asterisk:returnType (String)</li><li>:eight_spoked_asterisk:squareType (String)</li><li>:eight_spoked_asterisk:delimiter (String)</li></ul></li></ul><hr>:eight_pointed_black_star:Optional Parameter<br>:eight_spoked_asterisk:Optional Object key | Success:<ul><li>**finalBosArray** (Array)</li></ul><hr>Error:<ul><li>Array: `[]`</li></ul> | No | Returns a **final bos array** with all the squares that a piece from an **initial qos** square can legally move to.<br><br>Passing an **initial qos** square with a **square val** of `0` or a **non active sign** will result in a `[]`.<br><br>`returnType` accepted values: `"joined"`, `"fromToSquares"`, `"fen"`, `"san"`, `"uci"` and `"toSquare"`. Defaults to `"toSquare"` if not specified.<br><br>`squareType` accepted values: `"square"`, `"pos"` and `"bos"`. Defaults to `"bos"` if not specified. Only used in `returnType = "fromToSquares" and returnType = "toSquare"`.<br><br>`delimiter` is a single character to be used in `returnType = "joined"`. Defaults to `"-"` if not specified.<hr>Examples:<ul><li>`board.legalMoves("b1") //["c3", "a3"]`</li><li>`board.legalMoves("a3") //[]`</li><li>`board.legalMoves("e7") //[]`</li><li>`board.legalMoves("0invalidsquare0") //[]`</li></ul>
**legalFenMoves**(<br>*initialQos*<br>) | <ul><li>initialQos:<ul><li>**squareBos** (String)</li><li>**squarePos** (Array)</li><li>**square** (Object)</li></ul></li></ul> | Success:<ul><li>**finalFenArray** (Array)</li></ul><hr>Error:<ul><li>Array: `[]`</li></ul> | No | Returns a **final fen array** with all the FEN positions that can be legally reached when moving a piece from an **initial qos**.<br><br>Passing an **initial qos** square with a **square val** of `0` or a **non active sign** will result in a `[]`.<br><br>All pawn promotions will be included.<hr>Examples:<ul><li>`board.legalFenMoves("b1") //["rnbqkbnr/pppppppp/8/8/8/2N5/PPPPPPPP/R1BQKBNR b KQkq - 1 1", "rnbqkbnr/pppppppp/8/8/8/N7/PPPPPPPP/R1BQKBNR b KQkq - 1 1"]`</li><li>`board.legalFenMoves("a3") //[]`</li><li>`board.legalFenMoves("e7") //[]`</li><li>`board.legalFenMoves("0invalidsquare0") //[]`</li></ul>
**legalSanMoves**(<br>*initialQos*<br>) | <ul><li>initialQos:<ul><li>**squareBos** (String)</li><li>**squarePos** (Array)</li><li>**square** (Object)</li></ul></li></ul> | Success:<ul><li>**finalSanArray** (Array)</li></ul><hr>Error:<ul><li>Array: `[]`</li></ul> | No | Returns a **final san array** with all the san moves that a piece from an **initial qos** square can legally move to.<br><br>Passing an **initial qos** square with a **square val** of `0` or a **non active sign** will result in a `[]`.<br><br>All pawn promotions will be included.<hr>Examples:<ul><li>`board.legalSanMoves("b1") //["Nc3", "Na3"]`</li><li>`board.legalSanMoves("a3") //[]`</li><li>`board.legalSanMoves("e7") //[]`</li><li>`board.legalSanMoves("0invalidsquare0") //[]`</li></ul>
**legalUciMoves**(<br>*initialQos*<br>) | <ul><li>initialQos:<ul><li>**squareBos** (String)</li><li>**squarePos** (Array)</li><li>**square** (Object)</li></ul></li></ul> | Success:<ul><li>**finalUciArray** (Array)</li></ul><hr>Error:<ul><li>Array: `[]`</li></ul> | No | Returns a **final uci array** with all the uci moves that a piece from an **initial qos** square can legally move to.<br><br>Passing an **initial qos** square with a **square val** of `0` or a **non active sign** will result in a `[]`.<br><br>All pawn promotions will be included.<hr>Examples:<ul><li>`board.legalUciMoves("b1") //["b1c3", "b1a3"]`</li><li>`board.legalUciMoves("a3") //[]`</li><li>`board.legalUciMoves("e7") //[]`</li><li>`board.legalUciMoves("0invalidsquare0") //[]`</li></ul>
**isEqualBoard**(<br>*toBoard*<br>) | <ul><li>toBoard:<ul><li>**boardName** (String)</li><li>**board** (Object)</li></ul></li></ul> | Success:<ul><li>Boolean</li></ul><hr>:small_red_triangle_down:Error:<ul><li>Boolean: `false`</li></ul> | No | Tests for the equality of the [board properties](https://github.com/ajax333221/isepic-chess/blob/master/docs/board-properties.md#board-properties) <sup>(except for `board.boardName`)</sup> between the calling **board** and another **board**.<hr>Examples:<ul><li>`board.isEqualBoard("board_copy") //true`</li><li>`board.isEqualBoard(other_board) //false`</li><li>`same_board.isEqualBoard(same_board) //true`</li><li>`other_board.isEqualBoard("nonexistent") //false`</li></ul><hr>:small_red_triangle_down:Error emits a `console.log(...)` when:<ul><li>the *to board* is not found.</li></ul>

<sup>And the [board UI methods](https://github.com/ajax333221/isepic-chess-ui/blob/master/docs/board-ui-methods.md#board-ui-methods) when **isepic-chess-ui.js** is present.</sup>

<p align="center"><a href="https://github.com/ajax333221/isepic-chess#book-documentation">« Return</a></p>
